This video is a reaction to an article
that's come out lately where it talks
about how Google is skimming profits
from advertisers through hidden search
terms. I don't think that's the case.
And here's why. I'm going to go through
the article and figure out exactly why I
think that the article is kind of
misleading. I kind of know what they're
trying to do, but I also see see why
it's not the case. So, let's jump into
it. So, the claim here is that if we're
looking at it, I just need to move my
mouse. This is not my normal setup. I
normally don't just do videos on the
fly, but my marketing manager is nowhere
to be found. So, here it is. Google
claims that search terms are hidden for
privacy reasons and not performance
reasons. So, we wanted to find out. They
analyzed $20 million uh and they said
for every dollar that you spend on
Google, they skim almost a dollar in
forced inefficiency through hidden
search terms. So, again, if you've
watched any of my videos, I don't like
the forced inefficiency. I don't like
all the extra words. Let's just say it
what it is. Basically, they say that if
you spend that this basically says if
you spend a dollar, then the extra
dollar is wasted or inefficient. I don't
really understand. Nothing really
highlights that that's the case in any
of the data here. So, I think this is a
big claim to begin with. So, starts with
this 5.6 million without hidden search
terms and $4.75 million in revenue in
hidden uh in hidden search terms. So
again, you're losing out on 850,000. I
don't think that's the case. And I think
saying skimming is a really big deal. I
do agree that Google needs to do better
on hidden search terms. And I do agree
that they should do better and the
antitrust trial is absolutely true that
Google is not to be trusted with any of
these things. However, I think it's a
little bit of I think it's a little bit
of a reach.
So
they say hidden search terms. Uh
D. So this is where it starts coming in.
So this is the this is what most people
are seeing when they see this article.
They see visible versus hidden. They see
the visible has 5.6x rows and hidden
search terms have of 2.59
giving 4.75x combined rowers and that on
the surface is horrible. Again visible
search term data is much better row more
or less twice x. So what is actually
going on here? And the reason why this
is I immediately started thinking hm
what have I done wrong because when we
look at this data in in savvy we don't
see the same thing at all. So I was like
I wonder what's going on and the first
thing I started looking at is what's the
methodology behind looking at the
visible versus hidden search terms
because some terms are hidden for a
reason. Some terms are hidden just
because they're hidden in my opinion.
But there's also a type of keyword that
is more visible than other. And as we
start going down here, they also say,
okay, CPCs are higher and hidden versus
visible. When I sort of look at that at
that, I go, hm, what search terms are
typically lower CPC and drives a lot of
revenue? It's typically branded terms.
So I start going down further and
further down. CTR, same thing. Higher
CTR, unvisible versus hidden. And I then
try to dig through, did they actually
look at brand versus non-brand in any of
this data? And the fact is all this up
here. No, this is the combined, nothing
else. And I'm like, I gotcha. But they
actually find the same thing in here.
They went in and they look at, okay, if
we look at it with brand, there's a
pretty significant difference in visible
versus hidden. And then when non-brand,
this is where it starts being
interesting. There's no difference
whatsoever. So we go back to the claim
of this article saying that Google is
skimming profits. Google is taking money
from advertisers. Google is hiding
inefficient ad spend in the hidden
search terms and it's just not true in
my opinion. Author is allowed to have
his opinion. I call Colin a friend in
the industry. So I have nothing against
him. I just think that we are
cherrypicking a little bit the data
that's being pulled out of this article.
And I don't think it's 100% Colin's
fault. This is media outlets. It's other
PPCers. It's people on Twitter. It's
people on LinkedIn just pulling out the
main first slide here and going like
boom, there's there's a problem much
higher row. Then nobody looks a little
bit deeper. And that's where in Collins
defense they have actually pulled out
the data and they are saying that
they're surprised that this is actually
looking like this. what I think is going
on because if we start going down say
all shopping we don't really see a big
difference in rows uh on shopping when
we start saying that going down on
non-brand shopping then hidden terms is
actually better ros so that's
interesting
search is where the big differentiator
is and again it goes down to back to
like okay almost 2.5x higher row is
unvisible versus hidden and that is what
we're like again if go down to the brand
it's the same think it's a brand that's
pulling in a lot of difference in the
CPCs, a lot of difference in the ROS.
And this is really where the crutch of
all this is because when we look at it,
it's not really a big deal. Hidden
search term performance is not a big
deal because I've seen the same thing.
It's the same thing when we look
quarterly in our accounts in savvy where
we're going to check okay what are the
big differentiators where is search
partner still something that matters is
hidden uh search terms something that's
suddenly supposed to matter etc etc. I
always look at it once in a while to try
to refresh what is actually ma what
actually matters in an ad account and
these are the same data points that we
see whenever you account for when you
pull out branded campaigns when you put
in search and shopping we don't see any
difference in performance between the
visible and the hidden so that's why I
think most people just take way too much
out of context in this article and just
look at the big headline Google is
skimming profits and I actually think
there's just a The reason for this
branded terms are more visible because
there's there is by definition
the brand itself let's say it's Nike
there's no branded like there's no
privacy issues with that so it will
always be shown more or less so we're
having a bigger portion of the branded
search terms that are visible versus
non-brand where there's a bigger portion
that are hidden. So that's why we're
seeing skewed numbers when we're just
looking at it overall. And we need to
dig down into the hidden versus not uh
sorry brand versus uh brand versus
non-brand and look at the non-brand
numbers and see okay what does the ros
actually look like and that's why I say
look at this in your own account you're
most likely not going to see a
difference. Now there are things here
that actually matter and other
industries my industry Colin's industry
is B2C business to consumer
e-commerce we have typically a lot of
data we typically don't have a lot of
privacy concerns in there so for us this
is not that big of a deal I think this
is a much bigger deal when I look in
niche accounts when it comes to
e-commerce for instance if we had a
client that sold this very particular
particular chair that helped people be
more have more mobility at home. It was
an abs. It was horrible to look at the
search terms. 90% weren't there. When we
then started looking at the search
search partners got 80% of the of the
spend. Then we remove that. Then we have
90% of the spend over in hidden terms.
The same thing with lawyers, high CPC
industries with low volume, etc., etc.,
etc. Hidden terms are a nightmare to
work with. And I think that if anybody
that have a lot of data in those
industries pulled up the same report,
they would actually have a claim. Us in
DTOC uh e-commerce uh marketing, we
don't have a claim. The numbers are
really really strict. We don't have a
claim when it comes to non-brand terms
that there's that there's any difference
in the performance when we start looking
at it. So I think that this article is
being blown way out of proportion. I
think that a lot of people cherrypicking
the data in here to try to say, "Hey,
this is a big deal. This is a horrible
thing." Now, don't get me wrong, I hate
hidden search terms. I don't think there
should be any hidden search terms. I
don't see a problem with where there
should be any privacy concerns. I don't
search for my uh social security number
alongside a keyword, etc., etc., etc. I
do think there's some issues. For
instance, when I use when I use my phone
and I try to just uh copy something
through lens, it will automatically
generate a Google search, but it's not
supposed to show any ads on that
anyways, etc., etc. There are there
should be much better ways to identify
whether or not a search term is a
privacy related problem and thereby not
show it versus
just hiding a lot of the low volume
search terms. So, that's it for me. I
think it's being blown way over out of
proportion. I think that we can do a lot
better as an industry instead of just
reacting to the big picture, the the
headlines and go and actually look at a
nitty-gritty that will serve you better
in the future as well because this is
not as big of a deal as people make it
out to be.
Let me know what you think. Let me know
if if am I am I downplaying this? Am I
saying this is not that big of a deal?
Because I don't personally think it's a
big deal. Do you think it's a big deal?
Let me know if you like the retro part
of this video because I have no editor.
I have no marketing manager to do
anything for me. So, this is just raw
from me.